# Shortest Path Finder For Airways

##Abstract
This project includes a program that determines the quickest route between airports. The shortest route or path between a source node and a destination node in a network must be determined in order to solve the Shortest Path Problem. In this work, we used Dijkstra's Algorithm to find the shortest path between two points in an airline network. Each defined edge must have a value that is not negative. One of the most significant difficulties airlines face is moving people and commercial goods between large cities in a shorter amount of time and at a cheaper cost. Using a simulation environment, we are developing the Dijkstra algorithm to resolve this challenging issue and to update it to see the shortest path from the origin node (city) to the destination node (other cities). The experimental findings demonstrate the simulation's capacity to identify the most economical route in the smallest amount of time (seconds) to identify the most practical route for flights in the shortest amount of time and regardless of the defined number of ports on the map.

##Introduction
Pathfinding is the plotting by the computer program of the shortest route between source and destination. One of the popular applications is resolving mazes. Here, Dijkstra is used as a major foundation for finding the shortest path on a weighted path. The shortest path problem in graph theory, which deals with how to determine the route that best meets certain criteria (shortest, cheapest, fastest, etc.) between aircraft in a large network, is closely related to pathfinding. At its core, a path-finding method searches a graph by starting at one vertex and exploring neighbouring nodes until a destination node is reached, usually with the intention of finding the cheapest route.  
This project is a model which has a real-life implementation of the traversing paths of connected flights across India. This is a user-friendly GUI project with the liberty of editing the cost and time-efficient values to help the user work on what they prefer. Sometimes we need to travel to a place faster and sometimes economical travel is more efficient. This project is reliable for finding the shortest path distances between airports to see and compare the best possible routes for passengers or for the transportation of exquisite goods.
We’ve used Priority Queues for the implementation of Dijkstra because priority queues are best when we have to arrange the values. In the Graphical user interface, we have imported the Map of India which has the marked airports for easy selection of source & destination. We can make all the possible nodes by just mouse clicking at that location. The factual values are added as the edges from each node in the text field. The user can select the source & destination and now the work is done. After clicking the button FIND SHORTEST PATH!, the path which is shortest and most convenient to the user is highlighted. 
